---
artist: 'Vicki Hallett'
title: 'A Day in the Life of an Elephant'
promo-image: '/images/artists/Vicki Hallett ELP image.png'
promo-image-position: 'center top; background-size: contain;'
start-time: '11:15' #Times should be written in 24 hour time
end-time: '12:15'
all-day: false
space: 'black box' #Choices are 'white box', 'black box', 'open box', 'grounds'
---
<!-- Description -->
Clarinets, daeguem, percussion and the elephant...

Original concept: Vicki Hallett

'A Day in the Life of an Elephant' uses audio, visual and infrasound clips from The Elephant Listening Project (ELP) at Cornell University. ELP, founded by Katy Payne after discovering that elephant calls include infrasound, capture these elephants sounds in acoustic recordings to study, help conserve and monitor threats to the endangered African forest elephant. Vicki Hallett uses these audios, videos and infrasound clips as a basis for her performances. Vicki finds a ‘tonal centre’ closely related to the sounds of the elephants, birds, frogs, for example, as well as using any other features that interest her, including influences of the indigenous people near the research regions. Vicki layers these compositional fragments to then develop through improvisation, a conversational inter-play with the elephants.

Vicki would like to thank the following people for their support:

Peter Wrege, Director of ELP, and his assistant Liz Rowland for providing

the images and audio clips; other researchers and game guards who risk their lives to protect elephants; to Katy Payne for her ground breaking discovery, for initiating the use of acoustics to monitor elephants, and for her tireless work to save them.

To find out more visit: elephantlisteningproject.org

If you would like to contribute to the Elephant Listening Project, please donate by going to ‘HELP ELP ‘ in the top menu of the ELP website.

Vicki has adopted Valentine and his Family. You might like to Adopt an Elephant too! Go to ‘ADOPT’ on the top menu of the ELP website.


<!-- Bio -->
Vicki Hallett, musician, composer, sound artist, educator and music practitioner is a graduate of the Victorian College of the Arts and The University of Melbourne. She has studied clarinet and saxophone with Philip Michel, the late Dr. Peter Clinch, Pamela Bloom, Robert Schubert and during a study tour of the Netherlands she studied with Oscar Ramspek, Nancy Braithwaite, Reinier Hogerhiejde, with a performance at a Walter Boeykins’ masterclass. Vicki spent 13 years in the RAAF Central Band where she was the first woman musician in the RAAF to be promoted to Sergeant. Vicki has held a Sound Artist residency at Geelong’s Boom Gallery and is Music Practitioner at the Geelong University Hospital Paediatric Ward. She is Artistic Director of Sonus Ensemble and Orchestral Manager of the Geelong Symphony Orchestra where she performs, in both, on clarinets. Vicki has developed a collaborative concept with Cornell University’s ‘Elephant Listening Project’ performing her work with positive peer reviews at the International Sonic Environments conference at Queensland Conservatorium. Vicki has composed, performed in and produced solo performances and recordings ranging from Sound Art, pain-management Meditations, Lullaby’s and the Elephant Listening Project.
