---
artist: 'Ben Opie, Thea Rossen, Ryan Williams'
title: 'Urban Gypsies'
start-time: '17:30' #Times should be written in 24 hour time
end-time: '18:30'
all-day: false
space: 'black box' #Choices are 'white box', 'black box', 'open box', 'grounds'
---
<!-- Description -->
Ben Opie and friends join for this performance of works for solo instrument with live and fixed electronics. Acoustic solo instruments immersed in electronics join together in this program to form a trilogy of virtuosic works. Each piece celebrates the solo instrument while pushing it to its technical limits and beyond. Experience these solo works for baritone saxophone, musical saw and oboe with electronics in an intimate environment.

Program:
Nate May - Below This Line for laptop, musical saw, and small items
Mark Applebaum – Aphasia for performer and tape
Johannes Kretz - Urban Gypsies (2005) for oboe, electronics, and film
+ Ryan’s program TBC
Below This Line (2016) - Nate May

Nate May is a composer based in Cincinnati USA. His music, which often uses repurposed sounds, draws on research and imagination. He treats contemporary issues of place, migration, environment and identity with textural intricacy and rhythmic drive. Below This Line was commissioned for this recital by Thea Rossen with the support of the philanthropist Stephen Whately.
“Last month a 1,000-year flood hit my home state, West Virginia, killing twenty-three people and leaving hundreds homeless. Visiting a few days later, I found a line that ran through every flooded place—sometimes an impression on a wall, and sometimes an invisible memory. Above this line was civilization, and below it was chaos. A 1,000-year flood, by definition, is calculated to have a 1 in 1,000 chance of occurring in a given year. Yet it may likely be less than millennium before we see another flood of this magnitude. The Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change concluded with “high confidence” that the atmospheric changes resulting from climate change contribute to increased flooding in North America and elsewhere in the world. In West Virginia—a state already challenged economically and plagued by some of the most extreme forms of man-made geological destruction seen anywhere in the world—the realities of increased flooding have already set in. Many have already moved out of flood plains, and many more are surely now making plans to leave. As floodwaters rise, questions of equity have become more urgent and consequential: when the burden of responsibility is not felt by those occupying the high ground, those who profit from chaos become the ones to impose their own order.
For this piece I’ve gleaned from radio documentaries some of the voices of West Virginia’s recent devastating floods. These voices, as well as the sound of the bowed saw, are fed through a delayed feedback loop that uses the physical properties of the saw blade to process the sound, adjusting only volume and playback speed by means of the computer. The percussionist also plays a collection of objects of the type that can be seen washed up in the aftermath—painful reminders of less turbulent times.” Nate May 2016. - Thea Rossen 2016

Aphasia - Mark Applebaum

Aphasia is a neurological disorder caused by damage to the portions of the brain that are responsible for language. Primary signs of the disorder include difficulty in expressing oneself when speaking, trouble understanding speech, and difficulty with reading and writing.
 
In Aphasia, Applebaum is exploring what it may be like inside the mind of a person suffering from the condition. The tape part consists exclusively of transformed vocal samples sung by Nicholas Isherwood, to whom the piece is dedicated. Many of the transformations resemble sounds one would associate with actions; such as turning a key, patting a cat as it purrs, or shaking a maraca, while others have no discernible physical association. The performer presents a set of strictly notated and highly choreographed gestures that appear to coincide at times in sync and at other times randomly with the tape. Written for and premiered in a solo vocal recital the piece is intentionally notable for its absence of live singing. - Thea Rossen 2014


Marionette (2007) - Roderik de Man, video by Marcel Wierckx
For sopranino, tenor & contra-bass recorders, video, FX & audio backing track.

In "Über das Marionetten Theater" (On the Puppet Theatre, 1810) Heinrich von Kleist, through his protagonist Herr C., discourses on the infinite grace of inanimate objects. On the Puppet Theatre was not written for marionettes to play, but as a description of their function and value. He compares the capacities of live performers and marionettes according to romantic aesthetics. 

Kleist argues that objects, unlike people, need not behave affectedly. He says the marionette, unfettered by the need to touch the ground (since it's strumming to the tune of strings pulled from the top), is far more graceful than the human dancer. Only a god or possibly an animal such as a bear, Herr C. proclaims, could equal the grace of inanimate matter, whereas humans are clumsy, weighed down by consciousness. In his argumentation for the superiority of the marionette Kleist shows a belief in the cognitive and creative superiority of the unconscious over the conscious, of spontaneity and intuition over reason.

Kleist's enthusiasm for the marionette theatre was shared by many, yet the weight of his words and the endless possibilities he saw in the puppet world were not recognised until long after his death, adding justification to the notion that Kleist was a man born before his time.

The music consists of an instrumental part for sopranino, tenor and contra-bass recorder (Paetzold) and an electronic audio part. Part I for sopranino is a musical representation of the sometimes grotesque at other times playful character of the marionette, part II a lyrical reflection on 'the grace of inanimate matter' for tenor and in part III the Paetzold (contra-bass recorder) translates controlled and uncontrolled movements in a chaotic fantasy. The electronic audio part was made of samples taken from the instruments, played by Jorge Isaac. 

Marionette was commissioned by the Visionor Foundation and is dedicated to Jorge Isaac.

<!-- Bio -->
Ben Opie is an oboist whose talents extend across the entire repertoire for oboe. His passion for contemporary music has led him to work with ensembles such as the Arcko Symphonic Ensemble, Ensemble Parallelle, Magik*Magik Orchestra and co-directing Inventi Ensemble with Melissa Doecke. He has had extensive training in historically informed performance practice, studying with leaders in the field such as Susan Harvey, Geoffrey Lancaster and Genevieve Lacey. He has performed at the Bendigo International Festival of Exploratory Music since its inception in 2013, and in 2015 presented a mixed media presentation of
new works including a world premiere work by Melody Eotvos for flute, oboe, electronics and video. Ben has commissioned many new works for oboe and gives both national and international premieres on a regular basis.

Australian percussionist Thea Rossen is a soloist and chamber musician currently studying at the Australian National Academy of Music. In her time at ANAM, Thea has been awarded three prizes for her solo recitals including Most Outstanding Performance and Best Program. A Speak Percussion Emerging Artist and founding member of the saxophone percussion duo Ad Lib, Thea has a passion for new music and collaborations with composers. Recent performances include recitals in the UK and Europe and collaborations with So Percussion (US), Kroumata Percussion Ensemble, Lisa Moore, members of the Aurora Orchestra, Brett Dean, Simone Young, WA Symphony Orchestra, Lior and performances in both the Perth and Melbourne International Arts Festivals. Thea received her Bachelor’s degree with honours at the University of Western Australia in 2013 with teachers Louise Devenish and Tim White. She is also passionate about bringing the joy of music to the community and has designed and facilitated school and community workshops in Victoria and Western Australia. Thea is currently in her third and final year at ANAM with teacher Peter Neville.

Ryan Williams is an interdisciplinary recorder player. A passion for the recorder has lead him on a journey full of cross-artform collaboration, engaging performance and exciting improvisation. With an endeavour to collaborate with any artform, Ryan uses his vibrancy as a stage performer to engage audiences visually and sonically.

Ryan’s major performances include the production of Venus & Adonis with the Bell Shakespeare Company (Malthouse Theatre, 2008), a Melbourne Royal Botanic Gardens improvisational residency (2009/10), the production of Everybody (2012) & a performance at the Setouchi Art Triennale, Japan (2016) with Snuff Puppets, Australia’s premiere giant puppet company who he has been collaborating with since 2010 and his own work Life As It Should Be with the cross¬-artform collective Any Kind Of Creature (Amsterdam) performed at the Antwerp Fringe Festival (2014) & the Melbourne Fringe Festival (2015).

Ryan is a performer-composer, improviser, teacher and sound designer based in Melbourne, Australia.

http://ryanwilliamsrecorder.com/
