---
artist: 'Mark Oliviero and Alicia Crossley'
title: 'Electro-Fragments'
promo-image: '/images/artists/Alicia-Fragments.jpg'
promo-image-position: 'center center'
start-time: '14:30' #Times should be written in 24 hour time
end-time: '15:30'
all-day: false
space: 'black box' #Choices are 'white box', 'black box', 'open box', 'grounds'
---
<!-- Description -->
Tracing the short but vibrant history of Woodwind solo and electronics performance, Recorder virtuoso Alicia Crossley packs together an electric program of 20th/21st Century works by renowned Australian Composers. "Electro-Fragments" is the latest project by Alicia Crossley and Mark Oliveiro.

Calliphora - Mark Oliveiro
"E" - Andrew Batt-Rawden
Ghost in the Machine - Cameron Lam
Studio 2a - Emanuele Casale
SteamJunk - Mark Oliveiro
The Garden of Love - JacobTV

<!-- Bio -->
Alicia Crossley is one of Australia's leading recorder players. She performs a wide variety of repertoire from renaissance dance tunes to contemporary electro-acoustic works with a particular interest in bass recorder repertoire.
In 2010 Alicia completed her Masters of Music (Performance) at the Sydney Conservatorium of Music under the instruction of recorder virtuoso Hans-Dieter Michatz. Since then Alicia has won several competitions and awards including the Don Cowell Memorial Trust Recorder Competition (2011), the Australia Council's ArtStart Grant for emerging artists (2013), and the Fine Music 102.5 Kruger Scholarship (2014). In August 2011, Alicia released her debut solo CD Addicted to Bass featuring seven newly commissioned Australian works for bass recorder. This was followed by her second solo CD Alchemy, released in May 2015, which has been nominated for Best Classical Music Album by AIR (Australian Independent Record Labels Association)
An experienced recorder player, Alicia regularly performs throughout Australia and has toured in the USA and New Zealand. She has also presented works at a number of festivals and conferences including the Aurora Festival (Sydney 2012, 2014), Vivid Festival (Sydney 2013), Australasian Computer Music Conference (Brisbane, 2012), Electronic Music Midwest (Chicago, 2012), and SEAMUS (Minnesota, 2013). Alicia has had broadcast with ABC Classic FM, Fine Music 102.5, 2GB and Radio New Zealand, and has performed with notable artists and ensembles such as Neal Peres da Costa (Harpsichord), Daniel Yeadon (cello/viola da gamba), Jamie Hey (cello), Alice Evans (violin), Hans-Dieter Michatz (recorder), Ruth Wilkinson (recorder), Kamala Bain (recorder), The Sydney Consort, and The Marais Project.