---
artist: 'Brigid Burke'
title: 'The Angst of the String, Fazed and Hands Fed Roots'
promo-image: '/images/artists/2019/brigid.JPG'
promo-image-position: 'center top'
start-time: '20:00' #Times should be written in 24 hour time
end-time: '21:00'
all-day: false
space: 'black box' #Choices are 'white box', 'black box', 'open box', 'grounds'
---
<!-- Description -->
Nat Grant - Violin percussion instruments
Jack Cross and Alexandra Hiew - Violins
Brigid Burke - Bb/ Bass Clarinet, live electronics and video.
Three new works created 2017-19 performed and created by Brigid Burke: The Angst of the String is based on deconstructed pieces of violins transformed as a whole to create a sound world exploring different surfaces of vibration. Fazes is a complex layering of upper partials of numerous layers of bass clarinet sounds. Added to the sound world the clarinet sounds have relentless presence of a pitch shifter, which generates artificial clarinet overtones which utilize the quartertones. Hands Fed Roots is based on the transformation of old buildings and sounds that are deconstructed. Computer generated sounds have been mixed with clarinet, glass, traffic and air to create a energetic and pulse driven work.  The visuals transport the viewer with snapshots of both degenerated line drawings of the buildings; that are fractured and contribute a ever changing landscape of urban living.


<!-- Bio -->
Brigid is an Australian composer, performance artist, clarinet soloist, visual artist, video artist and educator whose creative practice explores the use of acoustic sound and technology to enable media performances and installations that are rich in aural and visual nuances. Her work is widely presented in concerts, festivals, and radio broadcasts throughout Australia, Asia, Brazil, Europe and the USA.
Recently she has been a recipient of an Australia Council Project Music Fellowship & new work commissions ‘Burning Antrils’, ‘Coral Bells’ & “Instincts and Episodes’ also Artist in Resident at Marshall University USA with a Edwards Distinguished Professor Artist Residency and Indiana University USA. She has a PhD in Composition from UTAS and a Master of Music in Composition from The University of Melbourne. www.brigid.com.au