---
artist: 'Sonant Bodies'
title: 'Continu/um'
#promo-image: '/images/artists/Collaborations.jpg'
start-time: '11:00' #Times should be written in 24 hour time
end-time: '23:00'
all-day: true
space: 'outside' #Choices are 'white box', 'black box', 'open box', 'grounds'
---
<!-- Description -->
Sonant Bodies is a sound-art collective featuring James Hazel & Victoria Pham. As composers and artists, our work explores the idea of resonance as the starting point for creating installations that engage with the idea of ritual in various ways through the use of sound-producing objects & transformative processes. The collective have presented works for VIVID Festival, Sydney Fringe Festival and TINA Festival and actively seeks to collaborate with emerging artists and musicians.
James Hazel is a composer, sound-artist & writer based in Sydney who holds a Bachelor of Music (Honours). His work explores the intersection between sound-art and composition; the notion of the 'sacred'; precarity; and various spatial sound practices. James has been commissioned by the Bundanon Trust, Videodance Festival, Catapult Dance Studio, and the Lockup Gallery. His work has been exhibited/performed at the Lockup Gallery (Newcastle), Pinnacles Gallery Queensland, Spectrum Now Festival, Sydney Fringe Festival, & TINA festival.
Victoria Pham is a Sydney-based composer, illustrator and archaeologist having studied composition at the Sydney Conservatorium of Music and archaeology/art history at the University of Sydney. She has been commissioned by AGNSW: Brett Whiteley Studio, Spineless Wonders and The Out of the Shadows Festival, and worked with the Australian Museum and Max Planck Institute for the Science of Human History.
<!-- Bio -->
The first incarnation of Contin/uum was initially developed by James Hazel as the result of a commission by the Create2308 Arts Festival in Newcastle. This work has since been developed and is now the result of a collaboration between Hazel and Victoria Pham (Sonant Bodies). This work will be exhibited at an upcoming Sonant Bodies exhibition at Maitland Regional Art Gallery in February 2018.
Contin/uum is an interactive sound installation which explores the idea of cross-generational or intergenerational song/sound creation - inspired by the idea of the oral sound traditions of various traditional cultures from around the world. Visually speaking, Contin/uum consists of a set of instructions (listen, kneel, speak a sentence) and a single condenser microphone which is hung-low, in a dimly lit booth or contained space - akin to the visual presentation of a confessional booth - alluding to the idea of a private spoken confession to an invisible, or concealed figure.
Ultimately, the participant is invited to make a spoken contribution, and thus engage in the creation of a composition, which engages with participants from the past and future, in a constantly evolving continuum.
In terms of sound production, the single microphone is processed through a pre-prepared Max MSP patch on a mac-mini, which is sent through a small amplifier, mixing desk, and stereo speakers. Only the speakers and microphone are visible to the public. The resulting sound world of Contin/uum is generated by an immersive mixture of participants voices, which are processed, and semi-concealed electronically - through the use of delay, reverb and other effects - in real-time, within the algorithmically defined, parameters of a Max MSP patch.

