---
artist: 'Eric Normand and Jim Denley'
title: 'PLANT'
promo-image: '/images/artists/2019/plant-web.jpg'
start-time: '13:30' #Times should be written in 24 hour time
end-time: '14:30'
all-day: false
space: 'outside' #Choices are 'white box', 'black box', 'open box', 'grounds'
---
<!-- Description -->
PLANT is a project of duo improvisation using extended instrumemtal technics by two "looking forward" musicians from different generations and continents.
They are intertested in "site specifics" works and in situ performing.
On their belgian released LP, PLANT, they use the recorded sound of textile factory as soundscpace to work on.
Cut from the press: "Working the sweet spot where noise communication decisively rubs up against textural experimentation are the verdant improvisations that make up Plant, the duo from Rimouski-based electric bassist Ã‰ric Normand and Australian alto saxophonist and bass flautist Jim Denley."
Plant may preserve an unconventional duet, but musical skill, daring and instrumental command make it as alluring as any well kept garden. Suart Broomer in Musicwroks, 2017
<!-- Bio -->
Eric Normand is an improviser, bassist, instrument designer, composer, songwriter, singer and record and concert producer. He defines himself as an epidisciplinary musician, a free electron driven by its yearning for meetings.
As an improviser, he develop a personal and radical playing on a homemade electric bass equipped with mics and objects feedbacking and vibrating in small electronic devices, creating electric flux interrupted by the instrumental gesture.
With this set, he prefer to play duets, with Jim Denley (flute and sax), Philippe Lauzier (bass clarinet and sax), Xavier Charles (clarinet), Pierre-Yves Martel (viola de gamba and electronic), Jean-Luc Guionnet (saxophone), in addition of several spontaneous encounters.
He also compose for ensemble and multi-disciplinary projects.
Interested in collective creation and orchestral improvisation, he lead for seven years the GGRIL, a 15 pieces band that have worked with composers such as Evan Parker, Jean Derome, Robert Marcel Lepage and Michael Fischer.
His music has been programmed by or performed in several festivals in Canada , Australia and Europe. It have also been broadcasted by Radio-Canada, Australian Broadcasting Corporation, CBC, Radio-Grenouille, and several college radio stations.

