---
artist: 'Johnathon Win'
title: 'Two Door No Roof'
promo-image: '/images/artists/2019/win.jpg'
start-time: '11:00' #Times should be written in 24 hour time
end-time: '23:00'
all-day: true
space: 'outside' #Choices are 'white box', 'black box', 'open box', 'grounds'
---
<!-- Description -->
Two Door No Roof is a work in three sections for soloist. Composed in October 2018, Two Door No Roof  takes as its premise the three categories for defining sculpture as presented by art theorist Rosalind Krauss in her 1979 essay: Sculpture in the Expanded Field. These three categories: site construction; marked sites; and axiomatic structures were presented as a means of contending with the shift from modernist notions of sculpture towards an aesthetic and categorical malleability within the medium. My work takes the materiality of Krauss’ categories and appropriates them within the context of a work for soloist. Here the performer performs highly specific musical gestures in regards to architectural structures (and the gradient of control regarding ingressive sound); ambient sound as a positive space (and musical listening under states of physical negation); and ambient sound under a fixed state of negation (whereby what would otherwise be a negative space becomes grounds for positive sound and musical activity).
 
A special version of the second movement (tyres) will be presented at the Tilde New Music Festival. Here Johnathon will perform the movement for individual audience members at a mutually agreed upon time and place within the Testing Grounds.
<!-- Bio -->
Johnathon Win is a Melbourne-based musician with interests in formal composition and uncertainty. Johnathon is currently working towards a Bachelor of Music (Composition) at Monash University studying with Mary Finsterer and David Chisholm; he has also undertaken further studies with composers Liza Lim and Chris Dench, among others. Recent premieres of Johnathonâ€TMs music have included To Speak; You Must Wear The Veil for duo by Paris-based ensemble Scapegoat; and also a currently untitled work for quartet as part of the 2017 Future Creatives Festival. Johnathon recently participated in various presentations and panels at the International and Australasian Conference(s) for Undergraduate Research, respectively, as well as at the Melbourne Music Analysis Summer School. Forthcoming projects include works for soloist, percussion, and trio, as well as the launch of an online content series.
