---
artist: 'Jo Truman+'
title: 'Voicing The Body Map'
start-time: '14:30' #Times should be written in 24 hour time
end-time: '15:15'
all-day: false
space: 'open box' #Choices are 'white box', 'black box', 'open box', 'grounds'
---
<!-- Description -->
My life has been a quest of having to find and give voice to the silenced and digging up the buried denied. In my family social taboo  kept silence in frozen states and   denials spawned from shame and guilt. Singing enabled connecting  with  interiority, and the  grounding and embodiment of emotional states, enabling their transformation and a means of connecting with others. The voice is the vehicle for catharsis, enabling the body/self to be freed from its traumatic frozen state into an energised entity and transforming entity.

As I utilised the voice as a means of mapping interiority I discovered  the voice is the vehicle through and from which imprinted memories are accessed from the body right down to a physical, muscular and cellular level.  The voice is therefore the mapping component of memory, embedded within the body  and seeks to translate these embodied memories into communicable forms. In this sense, the body becomes the score.

Through working with Improvisation and the Voice for many years I have been able to develop a sensitivity to the subtle physical and emotional nuances connecting the Body, Being and the Voice and translate these nuances into a repertoire of improvised songs, sounds and extended vocal techniques. This performances may also include text.

<!-- Bio -->
I am a polymath artist whose work has encompassed several media and a diversity of approaches in the use of the media in the fields of:-

Composition; improvisation; sound and media art; singing/vocalising; writing (poetry, prose, text), visual arts (drawing/painting).

My main  focus is the voice and its ultimate potentials.I began a classical music education at the age of five,though before then I was an enthusiastic improviser, creating narrative driven improvisations on the piano and mimicking the sounds around her - birds in the local environment and opera singers on my  father's records.

I have been an improvisor for many years, having developed a repertoire of extended and microtonal vocal techniques, and exploring the possibilities of vocal microtonality. I have collaborated with improvisers such as Jon Rose (and the Relative Band), Jim Denley and Sandy Evans and in Europe in various festivals and venues with  Phil Minton, Maggie Nicols and Sylvia Hallet, Tony Buck (Fiets Festival), Vladimir Tchekasin and Vladimir Tarasov (1st Int. Jazz Festi. Vilnius), Fred Frith (LMC Festival), Peter Kowald and Gunda Gottschalk & Global Village and Bull's Eye Orchestra, Lindsay Cooper & Robyn Schulkowsky, George Lewis, Fred Van Hove and Johannes Bauer; Jon Rose, Joe Sachs (DDR), and Amanda Stewart (Voices Unvoiced).
I have  composed and performed work for various ensembles and festivals, including Ways and Meanings (The Eareye Seeshears). I  was commissioned to record a CD Sdreamings, by Staalplaat records, Amsterdam, which included collaborations with composer Jean Schwarz and percussionist Bart Fermie. This album was reviewed and awarded 4 stars by John Shand in the SMH.
I found a sympathetic medium in radio for my forays into sound and music as well as writing. Radio commissions include Cell Songs (ABC Classic FM), the Horspiel Sdreamings (AudioAkustisches Kunst,WDR3 Koln), The Mirrored Cry, The House In the Sky (a suite of her poetry and prose with music) for The Listening Room (ABC Classic FM), Transparent Messenger (The Europeans program on ABC Radio National) and Deprem (Radio Eye, ABC Radio National), and the mini-series Extreme Throats (ABC Classic FM) based on her MMus research. Several of my works for voice have been broadcast on the ABC and local radio, including Singing In Tongues, Keening Raga, Flock, Call and Response and Sdreamings.
In 1993 I received a live-in stipend at the Akademie Schloss Solitude in Stuttgart, Germany. During my residency, I conceived and directed my work A Bite In Time - a three-part sound/music installation multimedia work. I returned to Australia in 1995 and completed my BA (Communications) at UTS in 1998.
I completed  Master of Music with High Distinction in Composition at the Sydney Conservatorium of Music (University of Sydney), having studied composition with Bill Motzing and with Richard Toop as thesis supervisor writing my thesis "EXTREME THROATS; Extended Vocal Techniques in Contemporary Music of the 20th & 21st Centuries". Itravelled to New York on PRSS grant form the Sydney Con and performed at Phil Niblock's Experimental Intermedia festival, and conducted thesis research.
In October 2012 my WDR radiophonic commission The Bridge to Otherness (50 mins) was broadcast on from WDR3 Audio Akustisches Kunst. This work draws on themes and narratives of 'Self/Other/Place' and focussed on the region of the Blue Mountains .
I was commissioned by the curator of MONA FOMA, Brian Ritchie to compose and perform two works at the MONA FOMA 2013 festival in Hobart. In collaboration with Lennie Marks (electric guitar) and Daniel Grinvalds (electronics) as a singer and pianist )also working with electronics on stage) she performed a 30-minute work "Dream Slash Nightmare" at the Princes Wharf in Hobart. The piece "Elements" (inspired by the themes of earth, fire air and water) was performed as part of the Morning Meditation series at the St Mary's Cathedral Centre in Hobart, followed by a vocal workshop at the Bahai Centre. That year I also received a commission to create a work for the “Forever Now” project. My collaboration with Thomas Knox Arnold “Gigaanum Dawn Chorus” (Sound Technology ) was one of the works selected to be included on a contemporary version of the “Voyager” space record project.

In 2014 I received a new work grant from the Australia Council of the Arts to collaborate, as librettist and singer, on the creation of a chamber opera for solo voice woodwind and strings with the Icelandic composer Hildigunnur Runnarsdottir. We are hoping the work can be performed in Iceland and/or Australia in the near future.

I am currently directing and performing in a new work by Australian Composer Freddie Hill: “The Water Babies”.
