---
artist: 'Bianca Gannon'
title: 'Solo Gamelan with Loop Pedal'
start-time: '11:15' #Times should be written in 24 hour time
end-time: '12:15'
all-day: false
space: 'open box' #Choices are 'white box', 'black box', 'open box', 'grounds'
---
<!-- Description -->
This is a recent project that has come out of an intense study of Indonesian music a keen interest in improvisation, a lack of available gamelan musicians to play my compositions and a desire to contribute something new to the gamelan art form.

It was premiered in Aug at Winter Nocturnes, an evening combining music with visual art and food. I improvised a 2.5 hour set responding to shapes, textures and concepts in the food and art.

For Tilde the solo gamelan music performed would be my own compositions and improvisations - work which is currently being intensively workshopped by mentor Adam Simmons as part of the New Music Network:LAB award.

<!-- Bio -->
Based in Melbourne, Bianca Gannon is a musician and composer from Ireland with a BMus from Cardiff University . Through her compositions, piano improvisations and solo mixed gamelan with loop pedal project she seeks to create other-worldly sounds and experiences, drawing on her deep interests in French Art Music and Indonesian Gamelan Music.

Passionately engaging with visual art through music, Bianca has collaborated musically on exhibitions BERLIN (UN)GLEICHZEITIGES in Berlin, The Journey of the Man Who Fell to Earth in Las Vegas and Winter Nocturnes in Melbourne, as well as composing a song cycle The Invisible Light for Soprano, Javanese Gamelan and Projections performed in Dublin, setting the Irish Language Haiku of acclaimed poet Gabriel Rosenstock to music with projections of their accompanying images by Ron Rosenstock, and also recently performing piano improvisations in The Nolan and Void Galleries at MONA in Tasmania.

Bianca has studied various gamelan traditions intensively, such as Javanese, Balinese and Cirebonese Gamelans, in Java on the Indonesian Arts and Culture Scholarship, through private study trips and at the Cudamani Summer Institute in Bali, as well as honing her skills in Melbourne, becoming Vice President of Melbourne's Gamelan DanAnda and starting her solo gamelan with loop pedal project.

Bianca is the recipient of scholarships, funding and awards such as The Indonesian Arts and Culture Scholarship, The Australian Art Orchestra's Creative Music Intensive Scholarship, the RSCM Cage Postlude Composition Competition Finalist and New Music Network:LAB mentorship and funding initiative.
