---
artist: 'Phoebe Green'
title: 'CRANES'
promo-image: '/images/artists/Phoebe Green.jpg'
promo-image-position: '70% 30%'
start-time: '18:30' #Times should be written in 24 hour time
end-time: '19:30'
all-day: false
space: 'white box' #Choices are 'white box', 'black box', 'open box', 'grounds'
---
<!-- Description -->
The performer's commitment to commissioning and presenting Australian works that extend the instrument (viola) in unexpected and virtuosic ways continues with Lisa Illean's CRANES. The close collaboration between composer and performer yields a beautiful and special result. Whilst the performer strongly considers the content of female of composers in this recital with the inclusion of Illean and Lim, the emphasis should and always remain on good music. That Illean and Lim are female are not the "catch" but their language and artistry are high examples of individuality and originality. Billone's ITI KE MI at times is almost a explosion and an expulsion of the female voice; its frailty, its strength, its viciousness, dramatically spitting and spluttering to the end. The viola begins to take on an empowered voice of its own gaining momentum until last final choke.

Lisa Illean www.lisaillean.com.au

Pierluigi Billone http://www.pierluigibillone.com/en/texts/iti_ke_mi.html

Liza Lim https://lizalimcomposer.wordpress.com/
<!-- Bio -->
A regular figure in the new music scene in Melbourne, violist and curator Phoebe Green is a passionate advocate of Australian composers with a unique voice. With a repertoire focus on 20th century, current and exploratory repertoire, Phoebe has commissioned numerous works for viola and other instruments from composers including James Rushford, Helen Gifford, Alistair Noble, Lisa Illean, Wally Gunn and David Chisholm. As part of New Music Network’s 2014 Mini Series Phoebe performed with percussionist Leah Scholes a program celebrating works commissioned by Phoebe since 2005. She attended the 47th International Summer Course for New Music in Darmstadt, Germany and was awarded a Stipendienpreis for Interpretation. Phoebe returned to Darmstadt in 2016 and was also part of the Australian delegation to Classical:NEXT in Rotterdam. In 2015 Phoebe performed solos with Arcko Symphonic Project and ASTRA, presented a
solo recital at BIFEM to great acclaim, was guest artist in residence with the Amplified Elephants, and had a baby. Phoebe recently released a recording with Leah Scholes of her 2009 commission The Arrival composed by David Chisholm.
