---
artist: 'The Edge Ensemble'
title: 'The Edge Ensemble'
promo-image: '/images/artists/The Edge Ensemble 2.jpg'
promo-image-position: 'left 30%'
start-time: '20:30' #Times should be written in 24 hour time
end-time: '21:15'
all-day: false
space: 'white box' #Choices are 'white box', 'black box', 'open box', 'grounds'
---
<!-- Description -->
Formed on the Australian Art Orchestra's 2016 Creative Music Intensive in rural Tasmania, under the tutelage of Chris Hale and Peter Knight, master Pansori singer Bae Il Dong and Indigenous Manikay musicians Daniel and David Wilfred, The Edge Ensemble explores musical and philosophical concepts from Korean Pansori and Hohup traditions as well as Indigenous Manikay traditions within a free improvisation context.

<!-- Bio -->
Creative vocalist Josh Kyle’s varied approach to music-making has seen him involved with many different musical experiences and settings.  He has released two albums under his own name “Possibilities” (2010) and “Songs Of Friends” (2014), a duo collaboration with Sam Keevers, as well as a yet-to-be released recording in 2016, “I Hear, Here”. This project is a set of vocal explorations through composition and improvisation with Steve Magnussan, Hugh Stuckey and Joe Talia.

Josh is a long time member of Gian Slater’s improvising vocal ensemble Invenio as well as guest artist with Andrew Murray’s ATM15 and various other large and small ensembles.  He was a finalist in the James Morrison Generations in Jazz Vocal Scholarship as well as The National Jazz Awards, Voice.  In 2014 he was nominated for a Bell Award in the  Best Vocal Album catagory.  He has undertaken lessons with vocalist Theo Blackmann and has been was a participant in the 2015 Banff International Workshops in Improvised and Creative Music and The Australian Art Orchestra’s 2016 Creative Intensive.

Josh has presented various projects at the Melbourne, London, Stonnington, Perth and Wangaratta Festivals of Jazz as well as various clubs and theatres around the world.

Elliott Hughes is a composer and trumpet player, who combines interests in jazz, new music (contemporary classical) and electroacoustic music.  He has had his music performed in New York, Canada, Hong Kong and around Australia, including by leading ensembles such as the Melbourne Symphony Orchestra, Bennetts Lane Big Band, and Syzygy Ensemble.

He released his debut recording in 2012 with his large ensemble Horizon Art Orchestra, a modified big band that specialises in presenting new (often challenging!) music.  

As a performer he has shared the stage with Dafnis Prierto, John Hollenbeck, Theo Bleckmann, Fred Wesley, James Morrison, Graham Lyall and Ross Irwin, in a variety of small and large ensembles.

He completed study at the West Australian Academy of Performing Arts (2006-09) and Melbourne Conservatorium of Music (2011-12), and has been awarded a variety of prizes, grants and scholarships for his music.

Based in Melbourne, Bianca Gannon is a musician and composer from Ireland with a BMus from Cardiff University . Through her compositions, piano improvisations and solo mixed gamelan with loop pedal project she seeks to create other-worldly sounds and experiences, drawing on her deep interests in French Art Music and Indonesian Gamelan Music.

Passionately engaging with visual art through music, Bianca has collaborated musically on exhibitions BERLIN (UN)GLEICHZEITIGES in Berlin, The Journey of the Man Who Fell to Earth in Las Vegas and Winter Nocturnes in Melbourne, as well as composing a song cycle The Invisible Light for Soprano, Javanese Gamelan and Projections performed in Dublin, setting the Irish Language Haiku of acclaimed poet Gabriel Rosenstock to music with projections of their accompanying images by Ron Rosenstock, and also recently performing piano improvisations in The Nolan and Void Galleries at MONA in Tasmania.

Bianca is the recipient of scholarships, funding and awards such as The Indonesian Arts and Culture Scholarship, The Australian Art Orchestra's Creative Music Intensive Scholarship, the RSCM Cage Postlude Composition Competition Finalist and New Music Network:LAB mentorship and funding initiative.
