---
artist: 'Rogue Three'
title: 'Emu Wars'
start-time: '15:15' #Times should be written in 24 hour time
end-time: '16:00'
all-day: false
space: 'white box' #Choices are 'white box', 'black box', 'open box', 'grounds'
---
<!-- Description -->
In 1932, battle weary WWI veterans in Western Australia were once again ordered to take up arms. A new, homegrown enemy had surfaced, in the form of some 20,000 emus. The birds had been such a nuisance to farmers that the military were called in. Both sides put up a valiant fight. The emus won.

"If we had a military division with the bullet-carrying capacity of these birds it would face any army in the world... They can face machine guns with the invulnerability of tanks." - Major G.P.W. Meredith

Emu wars is a combination piece of three semi-compositions by Hannah Reardon-Smith (flutes, etc.), Ryan Williams (recorders, etc.) and Brodie Mcallister (trombone, etc.).

<!-- Bio -->

Hannah Reardon-Smith - flute

Brodie Mcallister - trombone

Ryan Williams - recorder

---

Hannah Reardon-Smith (Australia/Belgium) is flutist and co-artistic director of Brisbane-based ensemble Kupka’s Piano. Previously she has performed as a member of Ensemble Fractales and G.A.M.E. (both in Brussels) and Golden Orb (Brisbane/Beijing). She is heavily involved with the creation of new music by emerging Australian, Asian and European composers, and with cross-continental performances and exchanges of these works. In addition she is herself a keen improviser and budding composer. She has performed at major international festivals including SPOR (Denmark), Kunstenfestival des Arts (Belgium), Impuls (Austria), Internationale Musikakademie Darmstadt (Germany), Tokyo Wonder Site (Japan) and the Beijing Modern Music Festival (China).

In 2016 Hannah completed an Advanced Master Soloist in Contemporary Music Performance at the School of Arts in Ghent, Belgium, under the mentorship of Michael Schmid of ensemble ICTUS. Her main interests include contemporary chamber ensemble performance, re-thinking the concert, and improvisation, and her final year saw her undertake a detailed study of Richard Barrett’s Codex pieces for improvising ensembles.

http://hannahreardonsmith.com/

--

Ryan Williams is an interdisciplinary recorder player. A passion for the recorder has lead him on a journey full of cross-artform collaboration, engaging performance and exciting improvisation. With an endeavour to collaborate with any artform, Ryan uses his vibrancy as a stage performer to engage audiences visually and sonically.

Ryan’s major performances include the production of Venus & Adonis with the Bell Shakespeare Company (Malthouse Theatre, 2008), a Melbourne Royal Botanic Gardens improvisational residency (2009/10), the production of Everybody (2012) & a performance at the Setouchi Art Triennale, Japan (2016) with Snuff Puppets, Australia’s premiere giant puppet company who he has been collaborating with since 2010 and his own work Life As It Should Be with the cross¬-artform collective Any Kind Of Creature (Amsterdam) performed at the Antwerp Fringe Festival (2014) & the Melbourne Fringe Festival (2015).

Ryan is a performer-composer, improviser, teacher and sound designer based in Melbourne, Australia.

http://ryanwilliamsrecorder.com/

--

Brodie Mcallister is an Australian Trombonist, Composer and Educator whose musical practice is concerned with blurring the lines between notated and improvised music.

Career highlights include premieres from Kupka’s Piano, WAYJO  and The Enthusiastic Musicians Orchestra. Performances alongside ELISION Ensemble, BULLHORN and John Hoffman/Steve Newcomb’s The Con Artists.

Throughout 2015/2016 Brodie took part in some projects that were personal milestones. These Projects include: The Release of Jazzkill Bandits debut record, performing the world premiere of Ben Mark’s Passage 2 from Circular ruins 2, Performing alongside Clocked out for their 15th year anniversary concert and  performing on Andrew Garton’s Abbreviation Orchestra’s Album Golden Sands.

https://brodiemcallister.wordpress.com/
