---
layout: page
published: true
title: Tilde New Music Festival 2016
permalink: /fest2016/
---
### Composure

**Friday 22nd January 2016

**The Channel

**Arts Centre Melbourne

**7PM-9PM

This is a free event. Numbers are limited, so please book with Arts Centre Melbourne
Join facilitator Daryl Buckley from Australia’s acclaimed Elision Ensemble and a panel of internationally recognised practitioners related to new music for a discussion centred around virtuosity in new music performance, composition, and collaboration.

An exciting event for musicians, composers, and audiences interested in modern art music and how it branches out and relates to other disciplines.

This event is part of the Tilde New Music Festival for 2016, in partnership with Arts Centre Melbourne. If you are a student or young adult interested in new music performance, please see the Tilde New Music Academy held in January.

 
### Saturday 23rd January

**Testing Grounds

**1-23 City Road, Southbank

**2PM-11PM

$30/20 per day
Program
Join us for a day of experimental and thought-provoking performances, installations, and inter-disciplinary works by local and interstate artists. Lounge in our listening room with an exhibit of fixed-media works and enjoy the unconventional surrounds of Southbank's Testing Grounds.

 
### Sunday 24th January

**Australian Institute of Music

**120 King Street, Melbourne

**10AM-6PM

$30/20 per day

Program
Join us for an indoor set of performances and projects that require a traditional concert venue, or the intimate deployment of sensors, microcomputers, and other technologies, along with audio-visual works and more installation work.


